Lattice Light Sheet Deconvolution Software Terms and Conditions

The Lattice Light Sheet Deconvolution software (Janelia Software) was created at
the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Janelia Research Campus. Copyright 2020.
All rights reserved. 

Access to the Lattice Light Sheet Deconvolution software is subject to the
Janelia Open-Source license, presented here. 

Janelia Open-Source Software Redistribution and use in source and binary forms,
with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following
conditions are met: 

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 

* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or
other materials provided with the distribution. 

* Neither the name of HHMI nor the names of its contributors may be used to
endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior
written permission. THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND
CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR
CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY,
OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY
OF SUCH DAMAGE.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Additional Licensing Obligations with accompanying software

The following third-party components included in the Janelia Software are
licensed to Licensee pursuant to the following terms and conditions: 

1. Licensee's use of the FFTW third party component is subject to the terms and
conditions of GNU GPL v3, included below. 
      
      Consistent with these licensing requirements, the software listed below is
      provided under the terms of the specified open source software licenses.
      To obtain source code for software provided under licenses that require
      redistribution of source code, including the GNU General Public License
      (GPL) and GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL), contact
      innovation@janelia.hhmi.org. This offer is valid for a period of three (3)
      years from the date of the distribution of this product. 

2. NVIDIA run-time and FFT libraries are subject to licenses found on page 24,
and include additional open-source packages subject to the terms and conditions
of the relevant GNU GPL, described starting page 24. 

3. The Clmg library is subject to the CeCILL-C FREE SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT,
reproduced starting on page 15. 

4. All other libraries are subject to their own licenses reproduced below. 

Additional Licenses


The libtiff library, incorporated in this executable file for managing the Tag
Image File Format (TIFF), unmodified, is subject to the following license terms.
Additional information and the original source code may be found here
http://www.simplesystems.org/libtiff/.

Use and Copyright

Copyright (c) 1988-1997 Sam Leffler Copyright (c) 1991-1997 Silicon Graphics,
Inc.

Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that 
(i) the above copyright notices and this permission notice appear in all copies
of the software and related documentation, and 
(ii) the names of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics may not be used in any
advertising or publicity relating to the software without the specific, prior
written permission of Sam Leffler and Silicon Graphics. 

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS,
IMPLIED OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTY OF
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. IN NO EVENT SHALL SAM
LEFFLER OR SILICON GRAPHICS BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS
OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGE,
AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.


The zlib library for managing compression and incorporated in the executable
file in unmodified form, is subject to the following licensing terms. Additional
information and the original source code may be found here: http://zlib.net/.

Zlib license terms

zlib.h -- interface of the 'zlib' general purpose compression library version
1.2.11, January 15th, 2017 Copyright (C) 1995-2017 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark
Adler

This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied warranty. In
no event will the authors be held liable for any damages arising from the use of
this software. Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any
purpose, including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it
freely, subject to the following restrictions:

1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not claim
that you wrote the original software. If you use this software in a product, an
acknowledgment in the product documentation would be appreciated but is not
required.

2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
misrepresented as being the original software.

3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.

Jean-loup Gailly    Mark Adler jloup@gzip.org  madler@alumni.caltech.edu


The FFTW library for computing the discrete Fourier transform and incorporated
in the executable file in unmodified form, is subject to the GNU General Public
License, shown here. Additional information and the original source code may be
found here: http://www.fftw.org/.

Copyright Â© 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc. <http://fsf.org/> Everyone is
permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license document, but
changing it is not allowed. Preamble The GNU General Public License is a free,
copyleft license for software and other kinds of works. The licenses for most
software and other practical works are designed to take away your freedom to
share and change the works. By contrast, the GNU General Public License is
intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change all versions of a
program--to make sure it remains free software for all its users. We, the Free
Software Foundation, use the GNU General Public License for most of our
software; it applies also to any other work released this way by its authors.
You can apply it to your programs, too. When we speak of free software, we are
referring to freedom, not price. Our General Public Licenses are designed to
make sure that you have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and
charge for them if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it if you
want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it in new free
programs, and that you know you can do these things. To protect your rights, we
need to prevent others from denying you these rights or asking you to surrender
the rights. Therefore, you have certain responsibilities if you distribute
copies of the software, or if you modify it: responsibilities to respect the
freedom of others. For example, if you distribute copies of such a program,
whether gratis or for a fee, you must pass on to the recipients the same
freedoms that you received. You must make sure that they, too, receive or can
get the source code. And you must show them these terms so they know their
rights. Developers that use the GNU GPL protect your rights with two steps: (1)
assert copyright on the software, and (2) offer you this License giving you
legal permission to copy, distribute and/or modify it. For the developers' and
authors' protection, the GPL clearly explains that there is no warranty for this
free software. For both users' and authors' sake, the GPL requires that modified
versions be marked as changed, so that their problems will not be attributed
erroneously to authors of previous versions. Some devices are designed to deny
users access to install or run modified versions of the software inside them,
although the manufacturer can do so. This is fundamentally incompatible with the
aim of protecting users' freedom to change the software. The systematic pattern
of such abuse occurs in the area of products for individuals to use, which is
precisely where it is most unacceptable. Therefore, we have designed this
version of the GPL to prohibit the practice for those products. If such problems
arise substantially in other domains, we stand ready to extend this provision to
those domains in future versions of the GPL, as needed to protect the freedom of
users. Finally, every program is threatened constantly by software patents.
States should not allow patents to restrict development and use of software on
general-purpose computers, but in those that do, we wish to avoid the special
danger that patents applied to a free program could make it effectively
proprietary. To prevent this, the GPL assures that patents cannot be used to
render the program non-free. The precise terms and conditions for copying,
distribution and modification follow. TERMS AND CONDITIONS 0. Definitions. "This
License" refers to version 3 of the GNU General Public License. "Copyright" also
means copyright-like laws that apply to other kinds of works, such as
semiconductor masks. "The Program" refers to any copyrightable work licensed
under this License. Each licensee is addressed as "you". "Licensees" and
"recipients" may be individuals or organizations. To "modify" a work means to
copy from or adapt all or part of the work in a fashion requiring copyright
permission, other than the making of an exact copy. The resulting work is called
a "modified version" of the earlier work or a work "based on" the earlier work.
A "covered work" means either the unmodified Program or a work based on the
Program. To "propagate" a work means to do anything with it that, without
permission, would make you directly or secondarily liable for infringement under
applicable copyright law, except executing it on a computer or modifying a
private copy. Propagation includes copying, distribution (with or without
modification), making available to the public, and in some countries other
activities as well. To "convey" a work means any kind of propagation that
enables other parties to make or receive copies. Mere interaction with a user
through a computer network, with no transfer of a copy, is not conveying. An
interactive user interface displays "Appropriate Legal Notices" to the extent
that it includes a convenient and prominently visible feature that (1) displays
an appropriate copyright notice, and (2) tells the user that there is no
warranty for the work (except to the extent that warranties are provided), that
licensees may convey the work under this License, and how to view a copy of this
License. If the interface presents a list of user commands or options, such as a
menu, a prominent item in the list meets this criterion. 1. Source Code. The
"source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. "Object code" means any non-source form of a work. A
"Standard Interface" means an interface that either is an official standard
defined by a recognized standards body, or, in the case of interfaces specified
for a particular programming language, one that is widely used among developers
working in that language. The "System Libraries" of an executable work include
anything, other than the work as a whole, that (a) is included in the normal
form of packaging a Major Component, but which is not part of that Major
Component, and (b) serves only to enable use of the work with that Major
Component, or to implement a Standard Interface for which an implementation is
available to the public in source code form. A "Major Component", in this
context, means a major essential Component (kernel, window system, and so on) of
the specific operating system (if any) on which the executable work runs, or a
compiler used to produce the work, or an object code interpreter used to run it.
The "Corresponding Source" for a work in object code form means all the source
code needed to generate, install, and (for an executable work) run the object
code and to modify the work, including scripts to control those activities.
However, it does not include the work's System Libraries, or general-purpose
tools or generally available free programs which are used unmodified in
performing those activities but which are not part of the work. For example,
Corresponding Source includes interface definition files associated with source
files for the work, and the source code for shared libraries and dynamically
linked subprograms that the work is specifically designed to require, such as by
intimate data communication or control flow between those subprograms and other
parts of the work. The Corresponding Source need not include anything that users
can regenerate automatically from other parts of the Corresponding Source. The
Corresponding Source for a work in source code form is that same work. 2. Basic
Permissions. All rights granted under this License are granted for the term of
copyright on the Program, and are irrevocable provided the stated conditions are
met. This License explicitly affirms your unlimited permission to run the
unmodified Program. The output from running a covered work is covered by this
License only if the output, given its content, constitutes a covered work. This
License acknowledges your rights of fair use or other equivalent, as provided by
copyright law. You may make, run and propagate covered works that you do not
convey, without conditions so long as your license otherwise remains in force.
You may convey covered works to others for the sole purpose of having them make
modifications exclusively for you, or provide you with facilities for running
those works, provided that you comply with the terms of this License in
conveying all material for which you do not control copyright. Those thus making
or running the covered works for you must do so exclusively on your behalf,
under your direction and control, on terms that prohibit them from making any
copies of your copyrighted material outside their relationship with you.
Conveying under any other circumstances is permitted solely under the conditions
stated below. Sublicensing is not allowed; section 10 makes it unnecessary. 3.
Protecting Users' Legal Rights From Anti-Circumvention Law. No covered work
shall be deemed part of an effective technological measure under any applicable
law fulfilling obligations under article 11 of the WIPO copyright treaty adopted
on 20 December 1996, or similar laws prohibiting or restricting circumvention of
such measures. When you convey a covered work, you waive any legal power to
forbid circumvention of technological measures to the extent such circumvention
is effected by exercising rights under this License with respect to the covered
work, and you disclaim any intention to limit operation or modification of the
work as a means of enforcing, against the work's users, your or third parties'
legal rights to forbid circumvention of technological measures. 4. Conveying
Verbatim Copies. You may convey verbatim copies of the Program's source code as
you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and appropriately
publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice; keep intact all notices
stating that this License and any non-permissive terms added in accord with
section 7 apply to the code; keep intact all notices of the absence of any
warranty; and give all recipients a copy of this License along with the Program.
You may charge any price or no price for each copy that you convey, and you may
offer support or warranty protection for a fee. 5. Conveying Modified Source
Versions. You may convey a work based on the Program, or the modifications to
produce it from the Program, in the form of source code under the terms of
section 4, provided that you also meet all of these conditions: * a) The work
must carry prominent notices stating that you modified it, and giving a relevant
date. * b) The work must carry prominent notices stating that it is released
under this License and any conditions added under section 7. This requirement
modifies the requirement in section 4 to "keep intact all notices". * c) You
must license the entire work, as a whole, under this License to anyone who comes
into possession of a copy. This License will therefore apply, along with any
applicable section 7 additional terms, to the whole of the work, and all its
parts, regardless of how they are packaged. This License gives no permission to
license the work in any other way, but it does not invalidate such permission if
you have separately received it. * d) If the work has interactive user
interfaces, each must display Appropriate Legal Notices; however, if the Program
has interactive interfaces that do not display Appropriate Legal Notices, your
work need not make them do so. A compilation of a covered work with other
separate and independent works, which are not by their nature extensions of the
covered work, and which are not combined with it such as to form a larger
program, in or on a volume of a storage or distribution medium, is called an
"aggregate" if the compilation and its resulting copyright are not used to limit
the access or legal rights of the compilation's users beyond what the individual
works permit. Inclusion of a covered work in an aggregate does not cause this
License to apply to the other parts of the aggregate. 6. Conveying Non-Source
Forms. You may convey a covered work in object code form under the terms of
sections 4 and 5, provided that you also convey the machine-readable
Corresponding Source under the terms of this License, in one of these ways: * a)
Convey the object code in, or embodied in, a physical product (including a
physical distribution medium), accompanied by the Corresponding Source fixed on
a durable physical medium customarily used for software interchange. * b) Convey
the object code in, or embodied in, a physical product (including a physical
distribution medium), accompanied by a written offer, valid for at least three
years and valid for as long as you offer spare parts or customer support for
that product model, to give anyone who possesses the object code either (1) a
copy of the Corresponding Source for all the software in the product that is
covered by this License, on a durable physical medium customarily used for
software interchange, for a price no more than your reasonable cost of
physically performing this conveying of source, or (2) access to copy the
Corresponding Source from a network server at no charge. * c) Convey individual
copies of the object code with a copy of the written offer to provide the
Corresponding Source. This alternative is allowed only occasionally and
noncommercially, and only if you received the object code with such an offer, in
accord with subsection 6b. * d) Convey the object code by offering access from a
designated place (gratis or for a charge), and offer equivalent access to the
Corresponding Source in the same way through the same place at no further
charge. You need not require recipients to copy the Corresponding Source along
with the object code. If the place to copy the object code is a network server,
the Corresponding Source may be on a different server (operated by you or a
third party) that supports equivalent copying facilities, provided you maintain
clear directions next to the object code saying where to find the Corresponding
Source. Regardless of what server hosts the Corresponding Source, you remain
obligated to ensure that it is available for as long as needed to satisfy these
requirements. * e) Convey the object code using peer-to-peer transmission,
provided you inform other peers where the object code and Corresponding Source
of the work are being offered to the general public at no charge under
subsection 6d. A separable portion of the object code, whose source code is
excluded from the Corresponding Source as a System Library, need not be included
in conveying the object code work. A "User Product" is either (1) a "consumer
product", which means any tangible personal property which is normally used for
personal, family, or household purposes, or (2) anything designed or sold for
incorporation into a dwelling. In determining whether a product is a consumer
product, doubtful cases shall be resolved in favor of coverage. For a particular
product received by a particular user, "normally used" refers to a typical or
common use of that class of product, regardless of the status of the particular
user or of the way in which the particular user actually uses, or expects or is
expected to use, the product. A product is a consumer product regardless of
whether the product has substantial commercial, industrial or non-consumer uses,
unless such uses represent the only significant mode of use of the product.
"Installation Information" for a User Product means any methods, procedures,
authorization keys, or other information required to install and execute
modified versions of a covered work in that User Product from a modified version
of its Corresponding Source. The information must suffice to ensure that the
continued functioning of the modified object code is in no case prevented or
interfered with solely because modification has been made. If you convey an
object code work under this section in, or with, or specifically for use in, a
User Product, and the conveying occurs as part of a transaction in which the
right of possession and use of the User Product is transferred to the recipient
in perpetuity or for a fixed term (regardless of how the transaction is
characterized), the Corresponding Source conveyed under this section must be
accompanied by the Installation Information. But this requirement does not apply
if neither you nor any third party retains the ability to install modified
object code on the User Product (for example, the work has been installed in
ROM). The requirement to provide Installation Information does not include a
requirement to continue to provide support service, warranty, or updates for a
work that has been modified or installed by the recipient, or for the User
Product in which it has been modified or installed. Access to a network may be
denied when the modification itself materially and adversely affects the
operation of the network or violates the rules and protocols for communication
across the network. Corresponding Source conveyed, and Installation Information
provided, in accord with this section must be in a format that is publicly
documented (and with an implementation available to the public in source code
form), and must require no special password or key for unpacking, reading or
copying. 7. Additional Terms. "Additional permissions" are terms that supplement
the terms of this License by making exceptions from one or more of its
conditions. Additional permissions that are applicable to the entire Program
shall be treated as though they were included in this License, to the extent
that they are valid under applicable law. If additional permissions apply only
to part of the Program, that part may be used separately under those
permissions, but the entire Program remains governed by this License without
regard to the additional permissions. When you convey a copy of a covered work,
you may at your option remove any additional permissions from that copy, or from
any part of it. (Additional permissions may be written to require their own
removal in certain cases when you modify the work.) You may place additional
permissions on material, added by you to a covered work, for which you have or
can give appropriate copyright permission. Notwithstanding any other provision
of this License, for material you add to a covered work, you may (if authorized
by the copyright holders of that material) supplement the terms of this License
with terms: * a) Disclaiming warranty or limiting liability differently from the
terms of sections 15 and 16 of this License; or * b) Requiring preservation of
specified reasonable legal notices or author attributions in that material or in
the Appropriate Legal Notices displayed by works containing it; or * c)
Prohibiting misrepresentation of the origin of that material, or requiring that
modified versions of such material be marked in reasonable ways as different
from the original version; or * d) Limiting the use for publicity purposes of
names of licensors or authors of the material; or * e) Declining to grant rights
under trademark law for use of some trade names, trademarks, or service marks;
or * f) Requiring indemnification of licensors and authors of that material by
anyone who conveys the material (or modified versions of it) with contractual
assumptions of liability to the recipient, for any liability that these
contractual assumptions directly impose on those licensors and authors. All
other non-permissive additional terms are considered "further restrictions"
within the meaning of section 10. If the Program as you received it, or any part
of it, contains a notice stating that it is governed by this License along with
a term that is a further restriction, you may remove that term. If a license
document contains a further restriction but permits relicensing or conveying
under this License, you may add to a covered work material governed by the terms
of that license document, provided that the further restriction does not survive
such relicensing or conveying. If you add terms to a covered work in accord with
this section, you must place, in the relevant source files, a statement of the
additional terms that apply to those files, or a notice indicating where to find
the applicable terms. Additional terms, permissive or non-permissive, may be
stated in the form of a separately written license, or stated as exceptions; the
above requirements apply either way. 8. Termination. You may not propagate or
modify a covered work except as expressly provided under this License. Any
attempt otherwise to propagate or modify it is void, and will automatically
terminate your rights under this License (including any patent licenses granted
under the third paragraph of section 11). However, if you cease all violation of
this License, then your license from a particular copyright holder is reinstated
(a) provisionally, unless and until the copyright holder explicitly and finally
terminates your license, and (b) permanently, if the copyright holder fails to
notify you of the violation by some reasonable means prior to 60 days after the
cessation. Moreover, your license from a particular copyright holder is
reinstated permanently if the copyright holder notifies you of the violation by
some reasonable means, this is the first time you have received notice of
violation of this License (for any work) from that copyright holder, and you
cure the violation prior to 30 days after your receipt of the notice.
Termination of your rights under this section does not terminate the licenses of
parties who have received copies or rights from you under this License. If your
rights have been terminated and not permanently reinstated, you do not qualify
to receive new licenses for the same material under section 10. 9. Acceptance
Not Required for Having Copies. You are not required to accept this License in
order to receive or run a copy of the Program. Ancillary propagation of a
covered work occurring solely as a consequence of using peer-to-peer
transmission to receive a copy likewise does not require acceptance. However,
nothing other than this License grants you permission to propagate or modify any
covered work. These actions infringe copyright if you do not accept this
License. Therefore, by modifying or propagating a covered work, you indicate
your acceptance of this License to do so. 10. Automatic Licensing of Downstream
Recipients. Each time you convey a covered work, the recipient automatically
receives a license from the original licensors, to run, modify and propagate
that work, subject to this License. You are not responsible for enforcing
compliance by third parties with this License. An "entity transaction" is a
transaction transferring control of an organization, or substantially all assets
of one, or subdividing an organization, or merging organizations. If propagation
of a covered work results from an entity transaction, each party to that
transaction who receives a copy of the work also receives whatever licenses to
the work the party's predecessor in interest had or could give under the
previous paragraph, plus a right to possession of the Corresponding Source of
the work from the predecessor in interest, if the predecessor has it or can get
it with reasonable efforts. You may not impose any further restrictions on the
exercise of the rights granted or affirmed under this License. For example, you
may not impose a license fee, royalty, or other charge for exercise of rights
granted under this License, and you may not initiate litigation (including a
cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that any patent claim is
infringed by making, using, selling, offering for sale, or importing the Program
or any portion of it. 11. Patents. A "contributor" is a copyright holder who
authorizes use under this License of the Program or a work on which the Program
is based. The work thus licensed is called the contributor's "contributor
version". A contributor's "essential patent claims" are all patent claims owned
or controlled by the contributor, whether already acquired or hereafter
acquired, that would be infringed by some manner, permitted by this License, of
making, using, or selling its contributor version, but do not include claims
that would be infringed only as a consequence of further modification of the
contributor version. For purposes of this definition, "control" includes the
right to grant patent sublicenses in a manner consistent with the requirements
of this License. Each contributor grants you a non-exclusive, worldwide,
royalty-free patent license under the contributor's essential patent claims, to
make, use, sell, offer for sale, import and otherwise run, modify and propagate
the contents of its contributor version. In the following three paragraphs, a
"patent license" is any express agreement or commitment, however denominated,
not to enforce a patent (such as an express permission to practice a patent or
covenant not to sue for patent infringement). To "grant" such a patent license
to a party means to make such an agreement or commitment not to enforce a patent
against the party. If you convey a covered work, knowingly relying on a patent
license, and the Corresponding Source of the work is not available for anyone to
copy, free of charge and under the terms of this License, through a publicly
available network server or other readily accessible means, then you must either
(1) cause the Corresponding Source to be so available, or (2) arrange to deprive
yourself of the benefit of the patent license for this particular work, or (3)
arrange, in a manner consistent with the requirements of this License, to extend
the patent license to downstream recipients. "Knowingly relying" means you have
actual knowledge that, but for the patent license, your conveying the covered
work in a country, or your recipient's use of the covered work in a country,
would infringe one or more identifiable patents in that country that you have
reason to believe are valid. If, pursuant to or in connection with a single
transaction or arrangement, you convey, or propagate by procuring conveyance of,
a covered work, and grant a patent license to some of the parties receiving the
covered work authorizing them to use, propagate, modify or convey a specific
copy of the covered work, then the patent license you grant is automatically
extended to all recipients of the covered work and works based on it. A patent
license is "discriminatory" if it does not include within the scope of its
coverage, prohibits the exercise of, or is conditioned on the non-exercise of
one or more of the rights that are specifically granted under this License. You
may not convey a covered work if you are a party to an arrangement with a third
party that is in the business of distributing software, under which you make
payment to the third party based on the extent of your activity of conveying the
work, and under which the third party grants, to any of the parties who would
receive the covered work from you, a discriminatory patent license (a) in
connection with copies of the covered work conveyed by you (or copies made from
those copies), or (b) primarily for and in connection with specific products or
compilations that contain the covered work, unless you entered into that
arrangement, or that patent license was granted, prior to 28 March 2007. Nothing
in this License shall be construed as excluding or limiting any implied license
or other defenses to infringement that may otherwise be available to you under
applicable patent law. 12. No Surrender of Others' Freedom. If conditions are
imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that contradict
the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the conditions of
this License. If you cannot convey a covered work so as to satisfy
simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
obligations, then as a consequence you may not convey it at all. For example, if
you agree to terms that obligate you to collect a royalty for further conveying
from those to whom you convey the Program, the only way you could satisfy both
those terms and this License would be to refrain entirely from conveying the
Program. 13. Use with the GNU Affero General Public License. Notwithstanding any
other provision of this License, you have permission to link or combine any
covered work with a work licensed under version 3 of the GNU Affero General
Public License into a single combined work, and to convey the resulting work.
The terms of this License will continue to apply to the part which is the
covered work, but the special requirements of the GNU Affero General Public
License, section 13, concerning interaction through a network will apply to the
combination as such. 14. Revised Versions of this License. The Free Software
Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the GNU General Public
License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in spirit to the
present version, but may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.
Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program specifies
that a certain numbered version of the GNU General Public License "or any later
version" applies to it, you have the option of following the terms and
conditions either of that numbered version or of any later version published by
the Free Software Foundation. If the Program does not specify a version number
of the GNU General Public License, you may choose any version ever published by
the Free Software Foundation. If the Program specifies that a proxy can decide
which future versions of the GNU General Public License can be used, that
proxy's public statement of acceptance of a version permanently authorizes you
to choose that version for the Program. Later license versions may give you
additional or different permissions. However, no additional obligations are
imposed on any author or copyright holder as a result of your choosing to follow
a later version. 15. Disclaimer of Warranty. THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE
PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED
IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS
IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT
NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION. 16. Limitation of Liability. IN
NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL ANY
COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MODIFIES AND/OR CONVEYS THE PROGRAM AS
PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL,
INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE
THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED
INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE
PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY
HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. 17. Interpretation of
Sections 15 and 16. If the disclaimer of warranty and limitation of liability
provided above cannot be given local legal effect according to their terms,
reviewing courts shall apply local law that most closely approximates an
absolute waiver of all civil liability in connection with the Program, unless a
warranty or assumption of liability accompanies a copy of the Program in return
for a fee.

The Clmg library for Image processing is incorporated in the executable file in
unmodified form, is subject to the CeCILL-C FREE SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT,
shown here. Additional information and the original source code may be found
here: https://github.com/dtschump/CImg.

CeCILL-C FREE SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT

 
Notice

This Agreement is a Free Software license agreement that is the result of
discussions between its authors in order to ensure compliance with the two main
principles guiding its drafting:

    * firstly, compliance with the principles governing the distribution of Free
    Software: access to source code, broad rights granted to users,

    * secondly, the election of a governing law, French law, with which it is
    conformant, both as regards the law of torts and intellectual property law,
    and the protection that it offers to both authors and holders of the
    economic rights over software.


The authors of the CeCILL (for Ce[a] C[nrs] I[nria] L[logiciel] L[ibre]) license
are:

Commissariat Ë l'Energie Atomique - CEA, a public scientific, technical and
industrial research establishment, having its principal place of business at 25
rue Leblanc, immeuble Le Ponant D, 75015 Paris, France.

Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique - CNRS, a public scientific and
technological research establishment, having its principal place of business at
3 rue Michel-Ange, 75794 Paris cedex 16, France.

Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique - INRIA, a
public scientific and technological establishment, having its principal place of
business at Domaine de Voluceau, Rocquencourt, BP 105, 78153 Le Chesnay cedex,
France.

Preamble The purpose of this Free Software license agreement is to grant users
the right to modify and redistribute the software governed by this license
within the framework of an open source distribution model.

The exercising of these rights is conditional upon certain obligations for users
so as to preserve this status for all subsequent redistributions.

In consideration of access to the source code and the rights to copy, modify and
redistribute granted by the license, users are provided only with a limited
warranty and the software's author, the holder of the economic rights, and the
successive licensors only have limited liability.

In this respect, the risks associated with loading, using, modifying and/or
developing or reproducing the software by the user are brought to the user's
attention, given its Free Software status, which may make it complicated to use,
with the result that its use is reserved for developers and experienced
professionals having in-depth computer knowledge. Users are therefore encouraged
to load and test the suitability of the software as regards their requirements
in conditions enabling the security of their systems and/or data to be ensured
and, more generally, to use and operate it in the same conditions of security. 

This Agreement may be freely reproduced and published, provided it is not
altered, and that no provisions are either added or removed herefrom.

This Agreement may apply to any or all software for which the holder of the
economic rights decides to submit the use thereof to its provisions.

Article 1 - DEFINITIONS

For the purpose of this Agreement, when the following expressions commence with
a capital letter, they shall have the following meaning:

Agreement: means this license agreement, and its possible subsequent versions
and annexes.

Software: means the software in its Object Code and/or Source Code form and,
where applicable, its documentation, "as is" when the Licensee accepts the
Agreement.

Initial Software: means the Software in its Source Code and possibly its Object
Code form and, where applicable, its documentation, "as is" when it is first
distributed under the terms and conditions of the Agreement.

Modified Software: means the Software modified by at least one Contribution.

Source Code: means all the Software's instructions and program lines to which
access is required so as to modify the Software.

Object Code: means the binary files originating from the compilation of the
Source Code.

Holder: means the holder(s) of the economic rights over the Initial Software.

Licensee: means the Software user(s) having accepted the Agreement.

Contributor: means a Licensee having made at least one Contribution.

Licensor: means the Holder, or any other individual or legal entity, who
distributes the Software under the Agreement.

Contribution: means any or all modifications, corrections, translations,
adaptations and/or new functions integrated into the Software by any or all
Contributors, as well as any or all Internal Modules.

Module: means a set of sources files including their documentation that enables
supplementary functions or services in addition to those offered by the
Software.

External Module: means any or all Modules, not derived from the Software, so
that this Module and the Software run in separate address spaces, with one
calling the other when they are run.

Internal Module: means any or all Module, connected to the Software so that they
both execute in the same address space.

GNU GPL: means the GNU General Public License version 2 or any subsequent
version, as published by the Free Software Foundation Inc.

Parties: mean both the Licensee and the Licensor.

These expressions may be used both in singular and plural form.

Article 2 - PURPOSE The purpose of the Agreement is the grant by the Licensor to
the Licensee of a non-exclusive, transferable and worldwide license for the
Software as set forth in Article 5 hereinafter for the whole term of the
protection granted by the rights over said Software.

Article 3 - ACCEPTANCE

3.1 The Licensee shall be deemed as having accepted the terms and conditions of
this Agreement upon the occurrence of the first of the following events:
    (i) loading the Software by any or all means, notably, by downloading from a
    remote server, or by loading from a physical medium; (ii) the first time the
    Licensee exercises any of the rights granted hereunder.

3.2 One copy of the Agreement, containing a notice relating to the
characteristics of the Software, to the limited warranty, and to the fact that
its use is restricted to experienced users has been provided to the Licensee
prior to its acceptance as set forth in Article 3.1 hereinabove, and the
Licensee hereby acknowledges that it has read and understood it.

Article 4 - EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERM

4.1 EFFECTIVE DATE

The Agreement shall become effective on the date when it is accepted by the
Licensee as set forth in Article 3.1.

4.2 TERM The Agreement shall remain in force for the entire legal term of
protection of the economic rights over the Software.

Article 5 - SCOPE OF RIGHTS GRANTED The Licensor hereby grants to the Licensee,
who accepts, the following rights over the Software for any or all use, and for
the term of the Agreement, on the basis of the terms and conditions set forth
hereinafter. Besides, if the Licensor owns or comes to own one or more patents
protecting all or part of the functions of the Software or of its components,
the Licensor undertakes not to enforce the rights granted by these patents
against successive Licensees using, exploiting or modifying the Software. If
these patents are transferred, the Licensor undertakes to have the transferees
subscribe to the obligations set forth in this paragraph.

5.1 RIGHT OF USE The Licensee is authorized to use the Software, without any
limitation as to its fields of application, with it being hereinafter specified
that this comprises:

    1. permanent or temporary reproduction of all or part of the Software by any
    or all means and in any or all form.

    2. loading, displaying, running, or storing the Software on any or all
    medium.

    3. entitlement to observe, study or test its operation so as to determine
    the ideas and principles behind any or all constituent elements of said
    Software. This shall apply when the Licensee carries out any or all loading,
    displaying, running, transmission or storage operation as regards the
    Software, that it is entitled to carry out hereunder.

5.2 ENTITLEMENT TO MAKE CONTRIBUTIONS The right to make Contributions includes
the right to translate, adapt, arrange, or make any or all modifications to the
Software, and the right to reproduce the resulting software.

The Licensee is authorized to make any or all Contributions to the Software
provided that it includes an explicit notice that it is the author of said
Contribution and indicates the date of the creation thereof.

5.3 RIGHT OF DISTRIBUTION In particular, the right of distribution includes the
right to publish, transmit and communicate the Software to the general public on
any or all medium, and by any or all means, and the right to market, either in
consideration of a fee, or free of charge, one or more copies of the Software by
any means.

The Licensee is further authorized to distribute copies of the modified or
unmodified Software to third parties according to the terms and conditions set
forth hereinafter.

5.3.1 DISTRIBUTION OF SOFTWARE WITHOUT MODIFICATION

The Licensee is authorized to distribute true copies of the Software in Source
Code or Object Code form, provided that said distribution complies with all the
provisions of the Agreement and is accompanied by:

    1. a copy of the Agreement,

    2. a notice relating to the limitation of both the Licensor's warranty and
    liability as set forth in Articles 8 and 9, and that, in the event that only
    the Object Code of the Software is redistributed, the Licensee allows future
    Licensees unhindered access to the full Source Code of the Software by
    indicating how to access it, it being understood that the additional cost of
    acquiring the Source Code shall not exceed the cost of transferring the
    data.

5.3.2 DISTRIBUTION OF MODIFIED SOFTWARE When the Licensee makes a Contribution
to the Software, the terms and conditions for the distribution of the resulting
Modified Software become subject to all the provisions of this Agreement.

The Licensee is authorized to distribute the Modified Software, in source code
or object code form, provided that said distribution complies with all the
provisions of the Agreement and is accompanied by:

    1. a copy of the Agreement,

    2. a notice relating to the limitation of both the Licensor's warranty and
    liability as set forth in Articles 8 and 9, and that, in the event that only
    the Object Code of the Modified Software is redistributed, the Licensee
    allows future Licensees unhindered access to the full source code of the
    Modified Software by indicating how to access it, it being understood that
    the additional cost of acquiring the source code shall not exceed the cost
    of transferring the data.

5.3.3 DISTRIBUTION OF EXTERNAL MODULES When the Licensee has developed an
External Module, the terms and conditions of this Agreement do not apply to said
External Module, that may be distributed under a separate license agreement.


5.3.4 COMPATIBILITY WITH THE GNU GPL

The Licensee can include a code that is subject to the provisions of one of the
versions of the GNU GPL in the Modified or unmodified Software, and distribute
that entire code under the terms of the same version of the GNU GPL.

The Licensee can include the Modified or unmodified Software in a code that is
subject to the provisions of one of the versions of the GNU GPL, and distribute
that entire code under the terms of the same version of the GNU GPL.

Article 6 - INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

6.1 OVER THE INITIAL SOFTWARE The Holder owns the economic rights over the
Initial Software. Any or all use of the Initial Software is subject to
compliance with the terms and conditions under which the Holder has elected to
distribute its work and no one shall be entitled to modify the terms and
conditions for the distribution of said Initial Software. The Holder undertakes
that the Initial Software will remain ruled at least by the current license, for
the duration set forth in Article 4.2.

6.2 OVER THE CONTRIBUTIONS A Licensee who develops a Contribution is the owner
of the intellectual property rights over this Contribution as defined by
applicable law.

6.3 OVER THE EXTERNAL MODULES A Licensee who develops an External Module is the
owner of the intellectual property rights over this External Module as defined
by applicable law and is free to choose the type of agreement that shall govern
its distribution.

6.4 JOINT PROVISIONS The Licensee expressly undertakes:

    1. not to remove, or modify, in any manner, the intellectual property
    notices attached to the Software;

    2. to reproduce said notices, in an identical manner, in the copies of the
    Software modified or not. 

The Licensee undertakes not to directly or indirectly infringe the intellectual
property rights of the Holder and/or Contributors on the Software and to take,
where applicable, vis-Ë-vis its staff, any and all measures required to ensure
respect of said intellectual property rights of the Holder and/or Contributors.

Article 7 - RELATED SERVICES

7.1 Under no circumstances shall the Agreement oblige the Licensor to provide
technical assistance or maintenance services for the Software. However, the
Licensor is entitled to offer this type of services. The terms and conditions of
such technical assistance, and/or such maintenance, shall be set forth in a
separate instrument. Only the Licensor offering said maintenance and/or
technical assistance services shall incur liability therefor.

7.2 Similarly, any Licensor is entitled to offer to its licensees, under its
sole responsibility, a warranty, that shall only be binding upon itself, for the
redistribution of the Software and/or the Modified Software, under terms and
conditions that it is free to decide. Said warranty, and the financial terms and
conditions of its application, shall be subject of a separate instrument
executed between the Licensor and the Licensee.

Article 8 - LIABILITY

8.1 Subject to the provisions of Article 8.2, the Licensee shall be entitled to
claim compensation for any direct loss it may have suffered from the Software as
a result of a fault on the part of the relevant Licensor, subject to providing
evidence thereof.

8.2 The Licensor's liability is limited to the commitments made under this
Agreement and shall not be incurred as a result of in particular: (i) loss due
the Licensee's total or partial failure to fulfill its obligations, (ii) direct
or consequential loss that is suffered by the Licensee due to the use or
performance of the Software, and (iii) more generally, any consequential loss.
In particular the Parties expressly agree that any or all pecuniary or business
loss (i.e. loss of data, loss of profits, operating loss, loss of customers or
orders, opportunity cost, any disturbance to business activities) or any or all
legal proceedings instituted against the Licensee by a third party, shall
constitute consequential loss and shall not provide entitlement to any or all
compensation from the Licensor.

Article 9 - WARRANTY

9.1 The Licensee acknowledges that the scientific and technical state-of-the-art
when the Software was distributed did not enable all possible uses to be tested
and verified, nor for the presence of possible defects to be detected. In this
respect, the Licensee's attention has been drawn to the risks associated with
loading, using, modifying and/or developing and reproducing the Software which
are reserved for experienced users. The Licensee shall be responsible for
verifying, by any or all means, the suitability of the product for its
requirements, its good working order, and for ensuring that it shall not cause
damage to either persons or properties.

9.2 The Licensor hereby represents, in good faith, that it is entitled to grant
all the rights over the Software (including in particular the rights set forth
in Article 5).

9.3 The Licensee acknowledges that the Software is supplied "as is" by the
Licensor without any other express or tacit warranty, other than that provided
for in Article 9.2 and, in particular, without any warranty as to its commercial
value, its secured, safe, innovative or relevant nature. Specifically, the
Licensor does not warrant that the Software is free from any error, that it will
operate without interruption, that it will be compatible with the Licensee's own
equipment and software configuration, nor that it will meet the Licensee's
requirements.

9.4 The Licensor does not either expressly or tacitly warrant that the Software
does not infringe any third-party intellectual property right relating to a
patent, software or any other property right. Therefore, the Licensor disclaims
any and all liability towards the Licensee arising out of any or all proceedings
for infringement that may be instituted in respect of the use, modification and
redistribution of the Software. Nevertheless, should such proceedings be
instituted against the Licensee, the Licensor shall provide it with technical
and legal assistance for its defense. Such technical and legal assistance shall
be decided on a case-by-case basis between the relevant Licensor and the
Licensee pursuant to a memorandum of understanding. The Licensor disclaims any
and all liability as regards the Licensee's use of the name of the Software. No
warranty is given as regards the existence of prior rights over the name of the
Software or as regards the existence of a trademark.

Article 10 - TERMINATION

10.1 In the event of a breach by the Licensee of its obligations hereunder, the
Licensor may automatically terminate this Agreement thirty (30) days after
notice has been sent to the Licensee and has remained ineffective.

10.2 A Licensee whose Agreement is terminated shall no longer be authorized to
use, modify or distribute the Software. However, any licenses that it may have
granted prior to termination of the Agreement shall remain valid subject to
their having been granted in compliance with the terms and conditions hereof.

Article 11 - MISCELLANEOUS

11.1 EXCUSABLE EVENTS Neither Party shall be liable for any or all delay, or
failure to perform the Agreement, that may be attributable to an event of force
majeure, an act of God or an outside cause, such as defective functioning or
interruptions of the electricity or telecommunications networks, network
paralysis following a virus attack, intervention by government authorities,
natural disasters, water damage, earthquakes, fire, explosions, strikes and
labor unrest, war, etc.

11.2 Any failure by either Party, on one or more occasions, to invoke one or
more of the provisions hereof, shall under no circumstances be interpreted as
being a waiver by the interested Party of its right to invoke said provision(s)
subsequently.

11.3 The Agreement cancels and replaces any or all previous agreements, whether
written or oral, between the Parties and having the same purpose, and
constitutes the entirety of the agreement between said Parties concerning said
purpose. No supplement or modification to the terms and conditions hereof shall
be effective as between the Parties unless it is made in writing and signed by
their duly authorized representatives.

11.4 In the event that one or more of the provisions hereof were to conflict
with a current or future applicable act or legislative text, said act or
legislative text shall prevail, and the Parties shall make the necessary
amendments so as to comply with said act or legislative text. All other
provisions shall remain effective. Similarly, invalidity of a provision of the
Agreement, for any reason whatsoever, shall not cause the Agreement as a whole
to be invalid.

11.5 LANGUAGE The Agreement is drafted in both French and English and both
versions are deemed authentic.

Article 12 - NEW VERSIONS OF THE AGREEMENT

12.1 Any person is authorized to duplicate and distribute copies of this
Agreement.

12.2 So as to ensure coherence, the wording of this Agreement is protected and
may only be modified by the authors of the License, who reserve the right to
periodically publish updates or new versions of the Agreement, each with a
separate number. These subsequent versions may address new issues encountered by
Free Software.

12.3 Any Software distributed under a given version of the Agreement may only be
subsequently distributed under the same version of the Agreement or a subsequent
version, subject to the provisions of Article 5.3.4.

Article 13 - GOVERNING LAW AND JURISDICTION

13.1 The Agreement is governed by French law. The Parties agree to endeavor to
seek an amicable solution to any disagreements or disputes that may arise during
the performance of the Agreement.

13.2 Failing an amicable solution within two (2) months as from their
occurrence, and unless emergency proceedings are necessary, the disagreements or
disputes shall be referred to the Paris Courts having jurisdiction, by the more
diligent Party.

Version 2.0 dated 2006-07-12.


The NVIDIA run-time and FFT libraries, incorporated in the executable file in
unmodified form, are subject to the NVIDIA CUDA TOOLKIT LICENSE AGREEMENT, shown
here. Additional information and the original source code may be found here: 

Important Notice 

READ CAREFULLY: This Software License Agreement ("Agreement") for NVIDIA CUDA
Toolkit, including computer software and associated documentation ("Software"),
is the Agreement which governs use of the SOFTWARE of NVIDIA Corporation and its
subsidiaries ("NVIDIA") downloadable herefrom. By downloading, installing,
copying, or otherwise using the SOFTWARE, You (as defined below) agree to be
bound by the terms of this Agreement. If You do not agree to the terms of this
Agreement, do not download the SOFTWARE. 

Recitals Use of NVIDIA's SOFTWARE requires three elements: the SOFTWARE, an
NVIDIA GPU or application processor ("NVIDIA Hardware"), and a computer system.
The SOFTWARE is protected by copyright laws and international copyright
treaties, as well as other intellectual property laws and treaties. The SOFTWARE
is not sold, and instead is only licensed for Your use, strictly in accordance
with this Agreement. The NVIDIA Hardware is protected by various patents, and is
sold, but this Agreement does not cover the sale or use of such hardware, since
it may not necessarily be sold as a package with the SOFTWARE. This Agreement
sets forth the terms and conditions of the SOFTWARE only. 

1.1. Definitions 

1.1.1. Licensee "You", or "Your" shall mean the entity or individual that
downloads and uses the SOFTWARE. NVIDIA CUDA Toolkit License Agreement
www.nvidia.com End User License Agreements (EULA) DR-06739-001_v01_v8.0 | 2 

1.1.2. Redistributable Software "Redistributable Software" shall mean the
redistributable libraries referenced in Attachment A of this Agreement. 

1.1.3. Software "SOFTWARE" shall mean the deliverables provided pursuant to this
Agreement. SOFTWARE may be provided in either source or binary form, at NVIDIA's
discretion. 

1.2. Grant of License 

1.2.1. Rights and Limitations of Grant Provided that Licensee complies with the
terms of this Agreement, NVIDIA hereby grants Licensee the following limited,
non-exclusive, non-transferable, non-sublicensable (except as expressly
permitted otherwise for Redistributable Software in Section 1.2.1.1 and Section
1.2.1.3 of this Agreement) right to use the SOFTWARE -- and, if the SOFTWARE is
provided in source form, to compile the SOFTWARE -- with the following
limitations: 

1.2.1.1. Redistribution Rights Licensee may transfer, redistribute, and
sublicense certain files of the Redistributable SOFTWARE, as defined in
Attachment A of this Agreement, provided, however, that (a) the Redistributable
SOFTWARE shall be distributed solely in binary form to Licensee's licensees
("Customers") only as a Component of Licensee's own software products (each, a
"Licensee Application"); (b) Licensee shall design the Licensee Application such
that the Redistributable SOFTWARE files are installed only in a private
(non-shared) directory location that is used only by the Licensee Application;
(c) Licensee shall obtain each Customer's written or clickwrap agreement to the
license terms under a written, legally enforceable agreement that has the effect
of protecting the SOFTWARE and the rights of NVIDIA under terms no less
restrictive than this Agreement. 

1.2.1.2. Usage Rights Licensee may install and use multiple copies of the
SOFTWARE on a shared computer or concurrently on different computers, and make
multiple back-up copies of the SOFTWARE, solely for Licensee's use within
Licensee's Enterprise. "Enterprise" shall mean individual use by Licensee or any
legal entity (such as a corporation or university) and the subsidiaries it owns
by more than 50 percent. NVIDIA CUDA Toolkit License Agreement www.nvidia.com
End User License Agreements (EULA) DR-06739-001_v01_v8.0 | 3 

1.2.1.3. Further Redistribution Rights Subject to the terms and conditions of
the Agreement, Licensee may authorize Customers to further redistribute the
Redistributable SOFTWARE that such Customers receive as part of the Licensee
Application, solely in binary form, provided, however, that Licensee shall
require in their standard software license agreements with Customers that all
such redistributions must be made pursuant to a license agreement that has the
effect of protecting the SOFTWARE and the rights of NVIDIA whose terms and
conditions are at least as restrictive as those in the applicable Licensee
software license agreement covering the Licensee Application. For avoidance of
doubt, termination of this Agreement shall not affect rights previously granted
by Licensee to its Customers under this Agreement to the extent validly granted
to Customers under Section 1.2.1.1. 

1.2.1.4. Linux/FreeBSD Exception Notwithstanding the foregoing terms of Section
1.2.1.2, Section 1.2.1.1 and Section 1.2.1.3, SOFTWARE designed exclusively for
use on the Linux or FreeBSD operating systems, or other operating systems
derived from the source code to these operating systems, may be copied and
redistributed, provided that the binary files thereof are not modified in any
way (except for unzipping of compressed files). 

1.2.1.5. Additional Licensing Obligations Licensee acknowledges and agrees that
its use of certain third party Components included with the SOFTWARE may be
subject to additional licensing terms and conditions as set forth or referenced
in Attachment B of this Agreement. 

1.2.1.6. Limitations No Reverse Engineering If the SOFTWARE is provided in
binary form, Licensee may not reverse engineer, decompile, or disassemble the
SOFTWARE, nor attempt in any other manner to obtain the source code. No
Separation of Components The SOFTWARE is licensed as a single product. Except as
authorized in this Agreement, Software Component parts of the Software may not
be separated for use on more than one computer, nor otherwise used separately
from the other parts. No Rental Licensee may not rent or lease the SOFTWARE to
someone else. NVIDIA CUDA Toolkit License Agreement www.nvidia.com End User
License Agreements (EULA) DR-06739-001_v01_v8.0 | 4 No Modifications If the
SOFTWARE is provided in source form, Licensee may not modify or create
derivative works of the SOFTWARE. 

1.3. Term and Termination This Agreement will continue in effect for two (2)
years ("Initial Term") after Your initial download and use of the SOFTWARE,
subject to the exclusive right of NVIDIA to terminate as provided herein. The
term of this Agreement will automatically renew for successive one (1) year
renewal terms after the Initial Term, unless either party provides to the other
party at least three (3) months prior written notice of termination before the
end of the applicable renewal term. This Agreement will automatically terminate
if Licensee fails to comply with any of the terms and conditions hereof. In such
event, Licensee must destroy all copies of the SOFTWARE and all of its Component
parts. Defensive Suspension If Licensee commences or participates in any legal
proceeding against NVIDIA, then NVIDIA may, in its sole discretion, suspend or
terminate all license grants and any other rights provided under this Agreement
during the pendency of such legal proceedings. 

1.4. Copyright All rights, title, interest and copyrights in and to the SOFTWARE
(including but not limited to all images, photographs, animations, video, audio,
music, text, and other information incorporated into the SOFTWARE), the
accompanying printed materials, and any copies of the SOFTWARE, are owned by
NVIDIA, or its suppliers. The SOFTWARE is protected by copyright laws and
international treaty provisions. Accordingly, Licensee is required to treat the
SOFTWARE like any other copyrighted material, except as otherwise allowed
pursuant to this Agreement and that it may make one copy of the SOFTWARE solely
for backup or archive purposes. RESTRICTED RIGHTS NOTICE. Software has been
developed entirely at private expense and is commercial computer software
provided with RESTRICTED RIGHTS. Use, duplication or disclosure by the U.S.
Government or a U.S. Government subcontractor is subject to the restrictions set
forth in the Agreement under which Software was obtained pursuant to DFARS
227.7202-3(a) or as set forth in subparagraphs (c)(1) and (2) of the Commercial
Computer Software - Restricted Rights clause at FAR 52.227-19, as applicable.
Contractor/manufacturer is NVIDIA, 2701 San Tomas Expressway, Santa Clara, CA
95050. NVIDIA CUDA Toolkit License Agreement www.nvidia.com End User License
Agreements (EULA) DR-06739-001_v01_v8.0 | 5 

1.5. Applicable Law This Agreement shall be deemed to have been made in, and
shall be construed pursuant to, the laws of the State of Delaware. The United
Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods is
specifically disclaimed. The courts of Santa Clara County, California shall have
exclusive jurisdiction and venue over any dispute arising out of or relating to
this Agreement. 

1.6. Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitations on Liability 

1.6.1. No Warranties TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE
SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND NVIDIA AND ITS SUPPLIERS DISCLAIM ALL
WARRANTIES, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR
NONINFRINGEMENT. 

1.6.2. No Liability for Consequential Damages TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY
APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT SHALL NVIDIA OR ITS SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES WHATSOEVER (INCLUDING,
WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF BUSINESS PROFITS, BUSINESS INTERRUPTION,
LOSS OF BUSINESS INFORMATION, OR ANY OTHER PECUNIARY LOSS) ARISING OUT OF THE
USE OF OR INABILITY TO USE THE SOFTWARE, EVEN IF NVIDIA HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. 

1.6.3. No Support NVIDIA has no obligation to support or to provide any updates
of the Software. 

1.7. Miscellaneous 

1.7.1. Feedback Notwithstanding any Non-Disclosure Agreement executed by and
between the parties, the parties agree that in the event Licensee or NVIDIA
provides Feedback (as defined below) to the other party on how to design,
implement, or improve the SOFTWARE or NVIDIA CUDA Toolkit License Agreement
www.nvidia.com End User License Agreements (EULA) DR-06739-001_v01_v8.0 | 6
Licensee's product(s) for use with the SOFTWARE, the following terms and
conditions apply the Feedback: 

1.7.1.1. Exchange of Feedback Both parties agree that neither party has an
obligation to give the other party any suggestions, comments or other feedback,
whether verbally or in written or source code form, relating to (i) the
SOFTWARE; (ii) Licensee's products; (iii) Licensee's use of the SOFTWARE; or
(iv) optimization/interoperability of Licensee's product with the SOFTWARE
(collectively defined as "Feedback"). In the event either party provides
Feedback to the other party, the party receiving the Feedback may use any
Feedback that the other party voluntarily provides to improve the (i) SOFTWARE
or other related NVIDIA technologies, respectively for the benefit of NVIDIA; or
(ii) Licensee's product or other related Licensee technologies, respectively for
the benefit of Licensee. Accordingly, if either party provides Feedback to the
other party, both parties agree that the other party and its respective
licensees may freely use, reproduce, license, distribute, and otherwise
commercialize the Feedback in the (i) SOFTWARE or other related technologies; or
(ii) Licensee's products or other related technologies, respectively, without
the payment of any royalties or fees. 

1.7.1.2. Residual Rights Licensee agrees that NVIDIA shall be free to use any
general knowledge, skills and experience, (including, but not limited to, ideas,
concepts, know-how, or techniques) ("Residuals"), contained in the (i) Feedback
provided by Licensee to NVIDIA; (ii) Licensee's products shared or disclosed to
NVIDIA in connection with the Feedback; or (c) Licensee's confidential
information voluntarily provided to NVIDIA in connection with the Feedback,
which are retained in the memories of NVIDIA's employees, agents, or contractors
who have had access to such Residuals. Subject to the terms and conditions of
this Agreement, NVIDIA's employees, agents, or contractors shall not be
prevented from using Residuals as part of such employee's, agent's or
contractor's general knowledge, skills, experience, talent, and/or expertise.
NVIDIA shall not have any obligation to limit or restrict the assignment of such
employees, agents or contractors or to pay royalties for any work resulting from
the use of Residuals. 

1.7.1.3. Disclaimer of Warranty FEEDBACK FROM EITHER PARTY IS PROVIDED FOR THE
OTHER PARTY'S USE "AS IS" AND BOTH PARTIES DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS,
IMPLIED AND STATUTORY INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR NONINFRINGEMENT. BOTH
PARTIES DO NOT REPRESENT OR WARRANT THAT THE FEEDBACK WILL MEET THE OTHER
PARTY'S REQUIREMENTS OR THAT THE OPERATION OR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE FEEDBACK
WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR-FREE. NVIDIA CUDA Toolkit License Agreement
www.nvidia.com End User License Agreements (EULA) DR-06739-001_v01_v8.0 | 7
1.7.1.4. No Liability for Consequential Damages TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED
BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT SHALL EITHER PARTY OR ITS SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE FOR
ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES WHATSOEVER
(INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF BUSINESS PROFITS, BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION, LOSS OF BUSINESS INFORMATION, OR ANY OTHER PECUNIARY LOSS) ARISING
OUT OF THE USE OF OR INABILITY TO USE THE FEEDBACK, EVEN IF THE OTHER PARTY HAS
BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. 

1.7.2. Freedom of Action Licensee agrees that this Agreement is nonexclusive and
NVIDIA may currently or in the future be developing software, other technology
or confidential information internally, or receiving confidential information
from other parties that maybe similar to the Feedback and Licensee's
confidential information (as provided in Section 1.7.1.2 above), which may be
provided to NVIDIA in connection with Feedback by Licensee. Accordingly,
Licensee agrees that nothing in this Agreement will be construed as a
representation or inference that NVIDIA will not develop, design, manufacture,
acquire, market products, or have products developed, designed, manufactured,
acquired, or marketed for NVIDIA, that compete with the Licensee's products or
confidential information. 

1.7.3. No Implied Licenses Under no circumstances should anything in this
Agreement be construed as NVIDIA granting by implication, estoppel or otherwise,
(i) a license to any NVIDIA product or technology other than the SOFTWARE; or
(ii) any additional license rights for the SOFTWARE other than the licenses
expressly granted in this Agreement. If any provision of this Agreement is
inconsistent with, or cannot be fully enforced under, the law, such provision
will be construed as limited to the extent necessary to be consistent with and
fully enforceable under the law. This Agreement is the final, complete and
exclusive agreement between the parties relating to the subject matter hereof,
and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous understandings and agreements
relating to such subject matter, whether oral or written. This Agreement may
only be modified in writing signed by an authorized officer of NVIDIA. Licensee
agrees that it will not ship, transfer or export the SOFTWARE into any country,
or use the SOFTWARE in any manner, prohibited by the United States Bureau of
Industry and Security or any export laws, restrictions or regulations. NVIDIA
CUDA Toolkit License Agreement www.nvidia.com End User License Agreements (EULA)
DR-06739-001_v01_v8.0 | 8 The parties agree that the following sections of the
Agreement will survive the termination of the License: Section 1.2.1.4, Section
1.4, Section 1.5, Section 1.6, and Section 1.7. 

1.8. Attachment A Redistributable Software In connection with Section 1.2.1.1 of
this Agreement, the following files may be redistributed with software
applications developed by Licensee, including certain variations of these files
that have version number or architecture specific information embedded in the
file name - as an example only, for release version 6.0 of the 64-bit Windows
software, the file cudart64_60.dll is redistributable.

Component : CUDA Runtime Windows : cudart.dll, cudart_static.lib, cudadevrt.lib
Mac OSX : libcudart.dylib, libcudart_static.a, libcudadevrt.a Linux :
libcudart.so, libcudart_static.a, libcudadevrt.a Android : libcudart.so,
libcudart_static.a, libcudadevrt.a 

Component : CUDA FFT Library Windows : cufft.dll, cufftw.dll Mac OSX :
libcufft.dylib, libcufft_static.a, libcufftw.dylib, libcufftw_static.a Linux :
libcufft.so, libcufft_static.a, libcufftw.so, libcufftw_static.a Android :
libcufft.so, libcufft_static.a, libcufftw.so, libcufftw_static.a 

Component : CUDA BLAS Library Windows : cublas.dll, cublas_device.lib Mac OSX :
libcublas.dylib, libcublas_static.a, libcublas_device.a Linux : libcublas.so,
libcublas_static.a, libcublas_device.a Android : libcublas.so,
libcublas_static.a, libcublas_device.a Component : NVIDIA "Drop-in" BLAS Library


Windows : nvblas.dll Mac OSX : libnvblas.dylib Linux : libnvblas.so 

Component : CUDA Sparse Matrix Library Windows : cusparse.dll Mac OSX :
libcusparse.dylib, libcusparse_static.a Linux : libcusparse.so,
libcusparse_static.a Android : libcusparse.so, libcusparse_static.a 

Component : CUDA Linear Solver Library Windows : cusolver.dll Mac OSX :
libcusolver.dylib, libcusolver_static.a Linux : libcusolver.so,
libcusolver_static.a Android : libcusolver.so, libcusolver_static.a 

Component : CUDA Random Number Generation Library Windows : curand.dll Mac OSX :
libcurand.dylib, libcurand_static.a Linux : libcurand.so, libcurand_static.a
Android : libcurand.so, libcurand_static.a 

Component : NVIDIA Performance Primitives Library Windows : nppc.dll, nppi.dll,
npps.dll Mac OSX : libnppc.dylib, libnppi.dylib, libnpps.dylib,
libnppc_static.a, libnpps_static.a, libnppi_static.a Linux : libnppc.so,
libnppi.so, libnpps.so, libnppc_static.a, libnpps_static.a, libnppi_static.a
Android : libnppc.so, libnppi.so, libnpps.so, libnppc_static.a,
libnpps_static.a, libnppi_static.a 

Component : Internal common library required for statically linking to cuBLAS,
cuSPARSE, cuFFT, cuRAND and NPP Mac OSX : libculibos.a Linux : libculibos.a 

Component : NVIDIA Runtime Compilation Library Windows : nvrtc.dll,
nvrtc-builtins.dll Mac OSX : libnvrtc.dylib, libnvrtc-builtins.dylib Linux :
libnvrtc.so, libnvrtc-builtins.so 

Component : NVIDIA Optimizing Compiler Library Windows : nvvm.dll Mac OSX :
libnvvm.dylib Linux : libnvvm.so 

Component : NVIDIA Common Device Math Functions Library Windows :
libdevice.compute_20.bc, libdevice.compute_30.bc, libdevice.compute_35.bc Mac
OSX : libdevice.compute_20.bc, libdevice.compute_30.bc, libdevice.compute_35.bc

1.9. Attachment B 

Additional Licensing Obligations 

The following third party components included in the SOFTWARE are licensed to
Licensee pursuant to the following terms and conditions: 

1. Licensee's use of the GDB third party component is subject to the terms and
conditions of GNU GPL v3:
      
      This product includes copyrighted third-party software licensed under the
      terms of the GNU General Public License v3 ("GPL v3"). All third-party
      software packages are copyright by their respective authors. GPL v3 terms
      and conditions are hereby incorporated into the Agreement by this
      reference: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.txt Consistent with these
      licensing requirements, the software listed below is provided under the
      terms of the specified open source software licenses. To obtain source
      code for software provided under licenses that require redistribution of
      source code, including the GNU General Public License (GPL) and GNU Lesser
      General Public License (LGPL), contact oss-requests@nvidia.com. This offer
      is valid for a period of three (3) years from the date of the distribution
      of this product by NVIDIA CORPORATION. Component License CUDA-GDB GPL v3 

2. Licensee represents and warrants that any and all third party licensing
and/or royalty payment obligations in connection with Licensee's use of the
H.264 video codecs are solely the responsibility of Licensee. 

3. Licensee's use of the Thrust library is subject to the terms and conditions
of the Apache License Version 2.0. All third-party software packages are
copyright by their respective authors. Apache License Version 2.0 terms and
conditions are hereby incorporated into the Agreement by this reference.
http://www.apache.org/licenses/ LICENSE-2.0.html

In addition, Licensee acknowledges the following notice: Thrust includes source
code from the Boost Iterator, Tuple, System, and Random Number libraries. 

Boost Software License - Version 1.0 - August 17th, 2003 . . . . 

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or organization
obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying documentation covered by this
license (the "Software") to use, reproduce, display, distribute, execute, and
transmit the Software, and to prepare derivative works of the Software, and to
permit third-parties to whom the Software is furnished to do so, all subject to
the following: 

The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement, including the
above license grant, this restriction and the following disclaimer, must be
included in all copies of the Software, in whole or in part, and all derivative
works of the Software, unless such copies or derivative works are solely in the
form of machine-executable object code generated by a source language processor.


THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES
OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

4. Licensee's use of the LLVM third party component is subject to the following
terms and conditions: ======================================================
LLVM Release License ======================================================
University of Illinois/NCSA Open Source License 

Copyright (c) 2003-2010 University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. All rights
reserved. 

Developed by: LLVM Team University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
http://llvm.org 

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal with
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of
the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so,
subject to the following conditions: 
      * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
      this list of conditions and the following disclaimers. * Redistributions
      in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of
      conditions and the following disclaimers in the documentation and/or other
      materials provided with the distribution. * Neither the names of the LLVM
      Team, University of Illinois at Urbana- Champaign, nor the names of its
      contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
      Software without specific prior written permission. 

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE CONTRIBUTORS
OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS WITH THE SOFTWARE.

5. Licensee's use of the PCRE third party component is subject to the following
terms and conditions: ------------ PCRE LICENCE ------------ PCRE is a library
of functions to support regular expressions whose syntax and semantics are as
close as possible to those of the Perl 5 language. Release 8 of PCRE is
distributed under the terms of the "BSD" licence, as specified below. The
documentation for PCRE, supplied in the "doc" directory, is distributed under
the same terms as the software itself. The basic library functions are written
in C and are freestanding. Also included in the distribution is a set of C++
wrapper functions, and a just in-time compiler that can be used to optimize
pattern matching. These are both optional features that can be omitted when the
library is built.

THE BASIC LIBRARY FUNCTIONS --------------------------- Written by: Philip Hazel
Email local part: ph10 Email domain: cam.ac.uk University of Cambridge Computing
Service, Cambridge, England. Copyright (c) 1997-2012 University of Cambridge All
rights reserved.

PCRE JUST-IN-TIME COMPILATION SUPPORT -------------------------------------
Written by: Zoltan Herczeg Email local part: hzmester Emain domain: freemail.hu
Copyright(c) 2010-2012 Zoltan Herczeg All rights reserved.

STACK-LESS JUST-IN-TIME COMPILER -------------------------------- Written by:
Zoltan Herczeg Email local part: hzmester Emain domain: freemail.hu Copyright(c)
2009-2012 Zoltan Herczeg All rights reserved.

THE C++ WRAPPER FUNCTIONS ------------------------- Contributed by: Google Inc.
Copyright (c) 2007-2012, Google Inc. All rights reserved.

THE "BSD" LICENCE ----------------- Redistribution and use in source and binary
forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following
conditions are met:
    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. * Redistributions in
    binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of
    conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other
    materials provided with the distribution. * Neither the name of the
    University of Cambridge nor the name of Google Inc. nor the names of their
    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
    software without specific prior written permission.
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR
ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

6. Some of the cuBLAS library routines were written by or derived from code
written by Vasily Volkov and are subject to the Modified Berkeley Software
Distribution License as follows: 

Copyright (c) 2007-2009, Regents of the University of California 

All rights reserved. Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or
without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met: 

      * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
      this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. * Redistributions in
      binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of
      conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other
      materials provided with the distribution. * Neither the name of the
      University of California, Berkeley nor the names of its contributors may
      be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
      specific prior written permission. 

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT
SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT
OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY
OF SUCH DAMAGE.

7. Some of the cuBLAS library routines were written by or derived from code
written by Davide Barbieri and are subject to the Modified Berkeley Software
Distribution License as follows: 

Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Davide Barbieri @ University of Rome Tor Vergata. 

All rights reserved. 

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
are permitted provided that the following conditions are met: 
      * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
      this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. * Redistributions in
      binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of
      conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other
      materials provided with the distribution. * The name of the author may not
      be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
      specific prior written permission. 

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT
SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT
OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY
OF SUCH DAMAGE. 

8. Some of the cuBLAS library routines were derived from code developed by the
University of Tennessee and are subject to the Modified Berkeley Software
Distribution License as follows: 

Copyright (c) 2010 The University of Tennessee. 

All rights reserved. 

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
are permitted provided that the following conditions are met: 
      * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
      this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. * Redistributions in
      binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of
      conditions and the following disclaimer listed in this license in the
      documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution. *
      Neither the name of the copyright holders nor the names of its
      contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
      software without specific prior written permission. 

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR
ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

9. Some of the cuBLAS library routines were written by or derived from code
written by Davide Barbieri and are subject to the Modified Berkeley Software
Distribution License as follows: 

Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Davide Barbieri @ University of Rome Tor Vergata. 

All rights reserved. 

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
are permitted provided that the following conditions are met: 
      * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
      this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. * Redistributions in
      binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of
      conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other
      materials provided with the distribution. * The name of the author may not
      be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
      specific prior written permission. 

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT
SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT
OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY
OF SUCH DAMAGE. 

9. Some of the cuBLAS library routines were written by or derived from code
written by Jonathan Hogg and are subject to the Modified Berkeley Software
Distribution License as follows: 

Copyright (c) 2012, The Science and Technology Facilities Council (STFC). 

All rights reserved. 

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
are permitted provided that the following conditions are met: 
      * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
      this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. * Redistributions in
      binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of
      conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other
      materials provided with the distribution. * Neither the name of the STFC
      nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote
      products derived from this software without specific prior written
      permission. 

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE STFC BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

10. Some of the cuBLAS library routines were written by or derived from code
written by Ahmad M. Abdelfattah, David Keyes, and Hatem Ltaief, and are subject
to the Apache License, Version 2.0, as follows: -- Â© Copyright 2013 King
Abdullah University of Science and Technology Authors: 
      Ahmad Abdelfattah (ahmad.ahmad@kaust.edu.sa) David Keyes
      (david.keyes@kaust.edu.sa) Hatem Ltaief (hatem.ltaief@kaust.edu.sa) 

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
are permitted provided that the following conditions are met: 
      
      * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
      this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. * Redistributions in
      binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of
      conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other
      materials provided with the distribution. * Neither the name of the King
      Abdullah University of Science and Technology nor the names of its
      contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
      software without specific prior written permission. 

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS''
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR
TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE

11. Some of the cuSPARSE library routines were written by or derived from code
written by Li-Wen Chang and are subject to the NCSA Open Source License as
follows: 

Copyright (c) 2012, University of Illinois. 

All rights reserved. 

Developed by: IMPACT Group, University of Illinois, http://
impact.crhc.illinois.edu 

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal with
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of
the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so,
subject to the following conditions: 
      * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
      this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. * Redistributions in
      binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of
      conditions and the following disclaimers in the documentation and/or other
      materials provided with the distribution. * Neither the names of IMPACT
      Group, University of Illinois, nor the names of its contributors may be
      used to endorse or promote products derived from this Software without
      specific prior written permission. 

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE CONTRIBUTORS
OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS WITH THE SOFTWARE.

12. Some of the cuRAND library routines were written by or derived from code
written by Mutsuo Saito and Makoto Matsumoto and are subject to the following
license: 

Copyright (c) 2009, 2010 Mutsuo Saito, Makoto Matsumoto and Hiroshima
University. 

All rights reserved. 

Copyright (c) 2011 Mutsuo Saito, Makoto Matsumoto, Hiroshima University and
University of Tokyo. All rights reserved. 

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
are permitted provided that the following conditions are met: 
      * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
      this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. * Redistributions in
      binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of
      conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other
      materials provided with the distribution. * Neither the name of the
      Hiroshima University nor the names of its contributors may be used to
      endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific
      prior written permission. 

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR
ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. 

13. Some of the cuRAND library routines were derived from code developed by D.
E. Shaw Research and are subject to the following license: 

Copyright 2010-2011, D. E. Shaw Research. 

All rights reserved. 

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
are permitted provided that the following conditions are met: 
      * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
      this list of conditions, and the following disclaimer. * Redistributions
      in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of
      conditions, and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other
      materials provided with the distribution. * Neither the name of D. E. Shaw
      Research nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or
      promote products derived from this software without specific prior written
      permission. 

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR
ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.


14. Licensee's use of the lz4 third party component is subject to the following
terms and conditions: 

Copyright (C) 2011-2013, Yann Collet. 

BSD 2-Clause License (http://www.opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license.php) 

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
are permitted provided that the following conditions are met: 
      * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
      this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. * Redistributions in
      binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of
      conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other
      materials provided with the distribution. 

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR
ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. 

15. The NPP library uses code from the Boost Math Toolkit, and is subject to the
following license: 

Boost Software License - Version 1.0 - August 17th, 2003 . . . . 

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or organization
obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying documentation covered by this
license (the "Software") to use, reproduce, display, distribute, execute, and
transmit the Software, and to prepare derivative works of the Software, and to
permit third-parties to whom the Software is furnished to do so, all subject to
the following: 

The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement, including the
above license grant, this restriction and the following disclaimer, must be
included in all copies of the Software, in whole or in part, and all derivative
works of the Software, unless such copies or derivative works are solely in the
form of machine-executable object code generated by a source language processor.


THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES
OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

16. Portions of the Nsight Eclipse Edition is subject to the following license: 

The Eclipse Foundation makes available all content in this plug-in ("Content").
Unless otherwise indicated below, the Content is provided to you under the terms
and conditions of the Eclipse Public License Version 1.0 ("EPL"). A copy of the
EPL is available at http:// www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html. For purposes of
the EPL, "Program" will mean the Content. 

If you did not receive this Content directly from the Eclipse Foundation, the
Content is being redistributed by another party ("Redistributor") and different
terms and conditions may apply to your use of any object code in the Content.
Check the Redistributor's license that was provided with the Content. If no such
license exists, contact the Redistributor. Unless otherwise indicated below, the
terms and conditions of the EPL still apply to any source code in the Content
and such source code may be obtained at http://www.eclipse.org.





1


